1. Inn Med (Heidelb). 2026 Jan 14. doi: 10.1007/s00108-025-02048-3. Online ahead
of  print.

[Polypharmacy and nephrotoxicity].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Czock D(1), Ebinger K(2), Sommerer C(3).

Author information:
(1)Innere Medizin IX - Abteilung für Klinische Pharmakologie und 
Pharmakoepidemiologie, Universitätsklinikum Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld 410, 
69120, Heidelberg, Deutschland. david.czock@med.uni-heidelberg.de.
(2)Innere Medizin IX - Abteilung für Klinische Pharmakologie und 
Pharmakoepidemiologie, Universitätsklinikum Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld 410, 
69120, Heidelberg, Deutschland.
(3)Innere Medizin X, Klinik für Nephrologie, Universitätsklinikum Heidelberg, Im 
Neuenheimer Feld 162, 69120, Heidelberg, Deutschland.

BACKGROUND: Polypharmacy is common among older adults. Renal effects can range 
from mild functional increases in creatinine to structural tubular injury.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to systematically describe nephrotoxicity in 
the context of polypharmacy, identify typical pharmacokinetic and 
pharmacodynamic constellations, and introduce the concept of "nephrotoxic 
burden" as a potential tool for quantitative risk assessment.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A selective review of the literature on drug-induced 
nephrotoxicity and drug-drug interactions was performed.
RESULTS: Pharmacokinetic interactions leading to renal adverse drug reactions 
typically occur when dose-dependent nephrotoxic agents such as calcineurin 
inhibitors reach toxic concentrations through cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) 
inhibition (e.g., by macrolides, azoles, or ritonavir). Pharmacodynamic 
interactions associated with renal effects are observed, for example, with the 
combination of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), 
angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and diuretics, or with 
combinations of vancomycin and aminoglycosides or piperacillin. The concept of 
nephrotoxic burden addresses the risk of acute kidney injury (AKI) from 
concurrent use of multiple nephrotoxic drugs but currently lacks adequate 
differentiation between underlying mechanisms.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients receiving calcineurin inhibitors, any additional 
prescriptions should be carefully reviewed for potential interactions and 
accompanied by dose adjustment and close therapeutic drug monitoring where 
appropriate. The concurrent use of several agents with structural tubular 
toxicity generally increases risk, whereas functional mechanisms, such as those 
seen with combined ACE inhibitor and sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor 
(SGLT2) inhibitor therapy, are usually well tolerated. The concept of 
nephrotoxic burden shows promise but requires further refinement and prospective 
validation before it can serve as a practical tool for risk stratification in 
polypharmacy.

Publisher: ZUSAMMENFASSUNG: HINTERGRUND: Polymedikation ist bei älteren Menschen 
häufig. Renale Effekte reichen von einem harmlosen funktionellen 
Kreatininanstieg bis zu strukturellen Tubulusschäden.
ZIEL DER ARBEIT: Ziel ist es, Nephrotoxizität im Kontext von Polymedikation 
systematisch darzustellen, typische pharmakokinetische und pharmakodynamische 
Konstellationen zu identifizieren und das Konzept der „nephrotoxic burden“ als 
möglichen Ansatz zur quantitativen Risikobewertung vorzustellen.
MATERIAL UND METHODEN: Selektive Auswertung der Fachliteratur zu 
arzneimittelinduzierter Nephrotoxizität und Wechselwirkungen.
ERGEBNISSE: Pharmakokinetische Wechselwirkungen, die zu unerwünschten 
Arzneimittelwirkungen (UAW) auf die Nieren führen, treten vor allem auf, wenn 
dosisabhängig nephrotoxische Substanzen wie Calcineurininhibitoren bedingt durch 
eine Inhibition von Cytochrom‑P450-Isoenzym 3A4 (CYP3A4; beispielsweise durch 
Makrolide, Azole, Ritonavir) auf toxische Konzentrationen ansteigen. 
Pharmakodynamische Wechselwirkungen, die zu UAW auf die Nieren führen, treten 
etwa bei Kombination von nichtsteroidalen Antirheumatika (NSAR), 
Angiotensin-converting-enzyme(ACE)-Hemmer und Diuretikum sowie bei Kombinationen 
von Vancomycin mit Aminoglykosiden oder Piperacillin auf. Das Konzept der 
„nephrotoxic burden“ adressiert die Gefahr einer akuten Nierenschädigung bei 
gleichzeitiger Anwendung mehrerer nephrotoxischer Arzneimittel, unterscheidet 
bislang aber noch unzureichend zwischen verschiedenen Mechanismen.
SCHLUSSFOLGERUNG: Bei Patientinnen und Patienten unter Calcineurininhibitoren 
sollte jede zusätzliche Verordnung sorgfältig auf mögliche Wechselwirkungen 
geprüft und gegebenenfalls durch Dosisanpassung und engmaschiges therapeutisches 
Drug-Monitoring begleitet werden. Bei gleichzeitiger Anwendung mehrerer 
Substanzen mit struktureller Tubulustoxizität ist grundsätzlich mit einem 
erhöhten Risiko zu rechnen, während funktionelle Mechanismen, wie bei 
Kombination von ACE-Hemmer und 
Natrium-Glukose-Kotransporter-Typ-2(SGLT2)-Hemmer, meist tolerabel sind. Das 
Konzept der „nephrotoxic burden“ erscheint vielversprechend, erfordert jedoch 
eine weitere Differenzierung und prospektive Validierung, um in Zukunft als 
praktisches Werkzeug zur Risikostratifizierung bei Polymedikation etabliert 
werden zu können.

© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Medizin Verlag GmbH, 
ein Teil von Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-025-02048-3
PMID: 41535444

Conflict of interest statement: Einhaltung ethischer Richtlinien. 
Interessenkonflikt: D. Czock, K. Ebinger und C. Sommerer geben an, dass kein 
Interessenkonflikt besteht. Für diesen Beitrag wurden von den Autor/-innen keine 
Studien an Menschen oder Tieren durchgeführt. Für die aufgeführten Studien 
gelten die jeweils dort angegebenen ethischen Richtlinien.


2. Cureus. 2025 Nov 24;17(11):e97640. doi: 10.7759/cureus.97640. eCollection 2025
 Nov.

Adverse Drug Reactions and Drug Interactions in Multimorbid Patients: A Review 
of Current Evidence.

S H(1), Tripathi S(2), Venuturumilli R(3), K SP(4), Reddy GHV(5), Mukherjee 
B(6), Lakhani HA(7).

Author information:
(1)Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, Teerthanker Mahaveer Medical College and 
Research Centre, Moradabad, IND.
(2)Hospital Administration, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Ranchi, IND.
(3)Critical Care and Anesthesia, NASA Hospitals, Hyderabad, IND.
(4)Respiratory Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Sri Lalithambigai Medical College 
and Hospital, Dr. M.G.R. Educational And Research Institute, Chennai, IND.
(5)HPB Surgery and Liver Transplantation, Institute of Liver and Biliary 
Sciences, New Delhi, IND.
(6)Biochemistry, KPC Medical College, Kolkata, IND.
(7)Internal Medicine, SBKS Medical College and Research Center, Vadodara, IND.

The rising prevalence of multimorbidity, defined as the coexistence of two or 
more chronic health conditions, is particularly pronounced among older adults 
and often necessitates polypharmacy. This increases the risk of adverse drug 
reactions (ADRs) and drug-drug interactions (DDIs), yet multimorbid individuals 
remain underrepresented in clinical trials. This narrative review synthesizes 
evidence from 55 recent sources, including randomized controlled trials, 
observational studies, systematic reviews, and real-world data, to evaluate the 
burden, risk factors, and management strategies for ADRs and DDIs in this 
vulnerable population. The findings highlight that ADRs and DDIs contribute 
substantially to hospitalizations, therapeutic failures, and morbidity. Common 
ADRs include gastrointestinal bleeding, hypoglycemia, nephrotoxicity, and 
central nervous system depression, while high-risk interactions frequently 
involve drugs such as warfarin, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), 
angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and selective serotonin reuptake 
inhibitors (SSRIs). Key areas of focus include geriatric multimorbidity, organ 
dysfunction, and the clustering of comorbidities. The review underscores the 
utility of deprescribing protocols, electronic decision support systems, and 
interdisciplinary care approaches. Persistent challenges, such as inappropriate 
prescribing and the complexity of polypharmacy, call for targeted interventions, 
including personalized dosing, the incorporation of artificial intelligence for 
risk prediction, and long-term pharmacovigilance frameworks. Advancing safer 
pharmacotherapy in patients with multiple conditions (multimorbid patients) 
requires holistic, evidence-informed, and patient-centered strategies.

Copyright © 2025, S et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.97640
PMCID: PMC12729518
PMID: 41450405

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the 
ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: 
Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was 
received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: 
All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present 
or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an 
interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared 
that there are no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work.


3. Anal Chim Acta. 2025 Nov 22;1376:344623. doi: 10.1016/j.aca.2025.344623. Epub 
2025 Sep 7.

An in vivo NanoBiT-based pseudoviral biosensor for real-time monitoring of 
SARS-CoV-2 spike/hACE2 interactions and therapeutic screening.

Lin CH(1), Lin MW(1), Yang XR(1), Chiang HH(1), Wu TH(1), Tsai CH(2), Lin CS(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Science and Technology, National Yang Ming Chiao 
Tung University, Hsinchu, 300, Taiwan.
(2)Division of Pulmonary Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Tungs' 
Taichung Metro Harbor Hospital, Taichung, 400, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Biological Science and Technology, National Yang Ming Chiao 
Tung University, Hsinchu, 300, Taiwan; Center for Intelligent Drug Systems and 
Smart Bio-devices (IDS(2)B), National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu, 
300, Taiwan. Electronic address: lincs@nycu.edu.tw.

Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 infects host cells through its 
trimeric surface spike protein, which binds to the human angiotensin-converting 
enzyme 2 (hACE2) receptor. The spike/hACE2 interaction is a critical target for 
therapeutic intervention against COVID-19. Although existing hACE2 transgenic 
mouse (TG) models facilitate studies of viral pathogenesis, they lack the 
capacity for real-time, non-invasive monitoring of viral entry events in vivo. 
To address this limitation, we developed a novel in vivo NanoLuc Binary 
Technology-based pseudoviral biosensor optimized for dynamic visualization of 
spike-hACE2 binding in live animals. Genetically engineered LgBiT-fused hACE2 
(LgBiT-hACE2) mice and a pseudovirus tagged with SmBiT-fused spike protein were 
developed. Upon spike-hACE2 binding, Nanoluciferase reconstitution generated 
quantifiable bioluminescent signals detectable within 6 h post-infection. 
Quantitative bioluminescence imaging using an in vivo imaging system enabled the 
visualization of virus infection in the LgBiT-hACE2 mouse model. Furthermore, 
baicalein and baicalin, two active flavonoid compounds derived from Scutellaria 
baicalensis, were identified as potent inhibitors for the viral spike and the 
hACE2 protein, respectively. Combined treatment yielded up to 90 % inhibition of 
spike/hACE2 interaction in vivo. This study presents an innovative in vivo 
biosensing model to non-invasively quantify virus-host interactions and evaluate 
the efficacy of spike-targeted antiviral agents under physiologically relevant 
conditions.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aca.2025.344623
PMID: 41073017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


4. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2025 Apr 8;323:149-153. doi: 10.3233/SHTI250067.

Minimizing STOPP and Beers Criteria Risks in PIM Treatments Using PM-TOM and 
ChatGPT: A Case Study.

Kulenovic A(1), Lagumdzija-Kulenovic A(1).

Author information:
(1)Absolute Information Age, Inc. Toronto, Canada.

PM-TOM (Personalized Medicine-Therapy Optimization Method) is a clinical 
decision-support tool designed to optimize polypharmacy treatments by minimizing 
their adverse drug reactions (ADRs) caused by individual drugs or drug 
interactions (DDIs, DCIs, DFIs, DGIs), along with the risks identified by the 
STOPP and Beers criteria. On the other hand, AI tools like ChatGPT 4.0, trained 
on medical literature texts, can provide broader clinical reasoning and insights 
tailored to individual patient contexts. By referring to a documented 
deprescribing case, this study demonstrates the synergistic power of PM-TOM and 
ChatGPT in optimizing potentially inappropriate medication (PIM) treatments. A 
malnourished older woman was admitted to a deprescribing facility with recurrent 
falls, hypertension, ischemic heart disease, depression, osteoarthritis, 
osteoporosis, and GERD. She was initially prescribed acetaminophen, alendronate, 
omeprazole, lisinopril, metoprolol, aspirin, citalopram, and vitamin D, which 
were assessed as inadequate. While the discharge regimen improved some 
conditions by replacing alendronate with zoledronic acid and reducing some drug 
dosages, PM-TOM revealed that key risks, stemming primarily from omeprazole, 
aspirin, and citalopram, remained unaddressed. The discharge treatment was 
optimized with PM-TOM after considering alternative drug classes suggested by 
ChatGPT and elaborated in the available medical literature. In the optimized 
treatment, omeprazole (PPI) was replaced with famotidine (H2-blocker), 
citalopram (SSRI) with agomelatine (atypical antidepressant), zoledronic acid 
(bisphosphonate) with denosumab (RANK ligand inhibitor), aspirin (NSAID) with 
ticagrelor (antiplatelet), and lisinopril with benazepril (ACE inhibitor). These 
changes significantly reduced possible ADRs and the geriatric care criteria 
risks. Finally, ChatGPT validated the proposed adjustments, confirming their 
alignment with the guidelines and highlighting the potential for longer-term 
benefits. This case study illustrates how a combined use of PM-TOM and AI tools 
can effectively support the clinical decision-making process by optimizing 
polypharmacy treatments and minimizing their PIMs, major contributors to 
morbidity in older adults and high healthcare costs.

DOI: 10.3233/SHTI250067
PMID: 40200464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Chembiochem. 2024 Dec 16;25(24):e202400612. doi: 10.1002/cbic.202400612. Epub 
2024 Oct 29.

Targeting SARS-CoV-2 Proteins: In Silico Investigation with Polypyridyl-Based 
Zn(II)-Curcumin Complexes.

Gawande V(1), Kushwaha R(1), Mandal AA(1), Banerjee S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Indian Institute of Technology (BHU), Varanasi, 
Uttar Pradesh, 221005, India.

Herein, we have selected eight Zn(II)-based complexes viz., [Zn(bpy)(acac)Cl] 
(1), [Zn(phen)(acac)Cl] (2), [Zn(dppz)(acac)Cl] (3), [Zn(dppn)(acac)Cl] (4), 
[Zn(bpy)(cur)Cl] (5), [Zn(phen)(cur)Cl] (6), [Zn(dppz)(cur)Cl] (7), 
[Zn(dppn)(cur)Cl] (8), where bpy=2,2'-bipyridine, phen=1,10-phenanthroline, 
dppz=benzo[i]dipyrido[3,2-a:2',3'-c]phenazine, 
dppn=naphtho[2,3-i]dipyrido[3,2-a:2',3'-c]phenazine, acac=acetylacetonate, 
cur=curcumin and performed in silico molecular docking studies with the viral 
proteins, i. e., spike protein (S), Angiotensin-converting enzyme II Receptor 
protein (ACE2), nucleocapsid protein (N), main protease protein (Mpro), and 
RNA-dependent RNA polymerase protein (RdRp) of SARS-CoV-2. The binding energy 
calculations, visualization of the docking orientation, and analysis of the 
interactions revealed that these complexes could be potential inhibitors of the 
viral proteins. Among complexes 1-8, complex 6 showed the strongest binding 
affinity with S and ACE2 proteins. 4 exerted better binding affinity in the case 
of the N protein, whereas 8 presented the highest binding affinities with Mpro 
and RdRp among all the complexes. Overall, the study indicated that Zn(II) 
complexes have the potential as alternative and viable therapeutic solutions for 
COVID-19.

© 2024 Wiley-VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/cbic.202400612
PMID: 39264259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Eur J Cancer. 2024 Nov;211:114197. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2024.114197. Epub 2024 
Jun 27.

Effect of concomitant medications on treatment response and survival in 
non-metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer: Exploratory analysis of the 
SPARTAN trial.

Roy S(1), Saad F(2), Sun Y(3), Malone S(4), Spratt DE(5), Kishan AU(6), Wallis 
CJD(7), Jia AY(5), Mohamad O(8), Swami U(9), Ong M(10), Agarwal N(9), Chowdhury 
S(11), Morgan SC(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
IL, USA. Electronic address: soumyajitroy8@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Surgery, Centre hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal, 
Montréal, QC, Canada.
(3)Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology, Radiation Oncology and Medical Physics, The Ottawa 
Hospital Cancer Centre, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospitals, Seidman Cancer 
Center, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(6)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of California Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.
(7)Department of Urology, Mount Sinai Hospital, University Health Network, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(8)Division of Radiation Oncology, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(9)Department of Medical Oncology, Huntsman Cancer Institute, University of 
Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.
(10)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, The Ottawa Hospital 
Cancer Centre, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(11)Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust and Sarah Cannon Research 
Institute, London, UK.
(12)Department of Radiology, Radiation Oncology and Medical Physics, The Ottawa 
Hospital Cancer Centre, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada. Electronic 
address: smorgan@toh.ca.

BACKGROUND: We performed an exploratory analysis of the SPARTAN trial to 
determine whether concomitant exposure to several classes of commonly prescribed 
medications influenced the effect of apalutamide on overall survival (OS) and 
metastasis-free survival (MFS) in patients with non-metastatic 
castration-resistant prostate cancer (nmCRPC).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: SPARTAN was a phase III randomized controlled trial in 
which nmCRPC patients were randomly assigned in a 2:1 ratio to receive androgen 
deprivation therapy with or without apalutamide. We focused on 5 commonly 
prescribed classes of medications: metformin, statins, angiotensin converting 
enzyme inhibitors (ACEI), acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), and proton pump inhibitors 
(PPI) based on a plausible biological and clinical rationale. To determine the 
potential effect modification, we applied multivariable Cox regression models 
for OS and MFS separately with additional interaction terms. To determine the 
independent association of concomitant medications with OS and MFS, we used 
IPTW-based log-rank test. A 2-sided p < 0.01 was considered statistically 
significant.
RESULTS: We did not find statistically significant differences in effect from 
apalutamide on OS across subgroups stratified by concomitant exposure to any of 
the medication classes. While there was some difference in the treatment effect 
from apalutamide on MFS between patients with concomitant statins (adjusted 
hazard ratio [aHR]: 0.20; 95 % CI: 0.15-0.28) versus without concomitant statins 
(aHR: 0.31 [0.24-0.39]), this did not reach the pre-specified threshold of 
statistical significance (p = 0.011). On IPTW-based analysis, patients treated 
concomitantly with metformin (median: not reached versus 31 months; p = 0.002), 
or ACEI (median: 37 versus 29 months, p = 0.006) had significantly improved MFS.
CONCLUSIONS: In this post-hoc exploratory analysis of SPARTAN, effects of 
apalutamide on MFS and OS were consistent across subgroups stratified by 
exposure to concomitant medications. Exposure to concomitant metformin and ACEI 
was independently associated with a significant improvement in MFS.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2024.114197
PMID: 39243730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Dr. Roy 
reports Young Investigator Award from the Prostate Cancer Foundation which 
funded this research. In addition, Dr. Roy reports research grant from Swim 
Across America and honorarium from Varian. Dr. Spratt reports personal fees from 
Blue Earth, personal fees from Janssen, personal fees from AstraZeneca, 
Gammatile, Varian, and Boston Scientific, outside the submitted work. Dr. Kishan 
reported receiving personal fees from ViewRay, Inc, Varian Medical Systems, and 
Boston Scientific; receiving speaking honoraria, consulting fees, and research 
support from Varian Medical Systems, ViewRay, Inc, and Intelligent Automation; 
receiving grants from Janssen and Point Biopharma; and receiving research 
funding from ViewRay, Inc, outside the submitted work. Dr. Agarwal reports 
consulting or advisory roles for Pfizer, Medivation/Astellas, Bristol Myers 
Squibb, AstraZeneca, Nektar, Lilly, Bayer, Pharmacyclics, Foundation Medicine, 
Astellas Pharma, Lilly, Exelixis, Merck, Novartis, Eisai, Seagen, EMD Serono, 
Janssen Oncology, AVEO, Calithera Biosciences, MEI Pharma, Genentech, Astellas 
Pharma, Foundation Medicine, Gilead Sciences and research funding from Bayer, 
Bristol Myers Squibb, Takeda, Pfizer, Exelixis, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Calithera 
Biosciences, Celldex, Eisai, Immunomedics, Janssen, Merck, Lilly, Nektar, ORIC 
Pharmaceuticals, crispr therapeutics, and Arvinas. Dr. Chowdhury, receiving 
honoraria, fees for serving on a speaker’s bureau, consulting fees, and travel 
support from Johnson and Johnson, Astellas Pharma, and Sanofi and grant support, 
honoraria, fees for serving on a speaker’s bureau, consulting fees, and travel 
support from Clovis Oncology. Dr. Jia reports personal fees from Blue Earth, and 
Myovant. Dr. Ong reports personal fees from Janssen, Bayer, AstraZeneca, and 
Pfizer. Dr. Morgan reports personal fees from Astellas, Bayer, Janssen, and 
TerSera and a research grant (institutional) from Knight Therapeutics, outside 
the submitted work. Dr. Swami reports consultancy to Astellas, Exelixis, Seattle 
Genetics, Imvax, Sanofi, Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Gilead and research funding to 
institute from Janssen, Exelixis and Astellas/Seattle Genetics. Dr. Saad reports 
grants, personal fees, and non-financial support from Janssen, during the 
conduct of the study; grants, personal fees, and non-financial support from 
Astellas, grants, personal fees, and non-financial support from Bayer, outside 
the submitted work. Dr. Wallis has received honoraria from AbbVie, Astellas, 
Astra Zeneca, Bayer, EMD Serono, Knight Therapeutics, Merck, Haymarket Media, 
Science & Medicine Canada, TerSera Canada, and Tolmar Pharmaceuticals Canada; 
reports consulting fees from Janssen Oncology, SESEN Bio, and Precision Point 
Specialty LLC; and has received research funding from Knight Therapeutics and 
Tolmar Pharmaceuticals, outside the submitted work. Dr. Malone has received 
honoraria from Astellas, Bayer, Janssen, and Sanofi; and travel and 
accommodations support from TerSera and Sanofi. There are no other conflicts of 
interest among the other authors.


7. Biosens Bioelectron. 2024 Nov 1;263:116630. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2024.116630. 
Epub 2024 Aug 3.

Engineering a NanoBiT biosensor for detecting angiotensin-converting enzyme-2 
(hACE2) interaction with SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and screening the inhibitors 
to block hACE2 and spike interaction.

Lin CH(1), Yang XR(1), Lin MW(1), Chang HJ(1), Lee CH(2), Lin CS(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Science and Technology, National Yang Ming Chiao 
Tung University, Hsinchu, 300, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Biological Science and Technology, National Yang Ming Chiao 
Tung University, Hsinchu, 300, Taiwan; Department of Plastic and Reconstructive 
Surgery, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Linkou, Taoyuan, 333, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Biological Science and Technology, National Yang Ming Chiao 
Tung University, Hsinchu, 300, Taiwan; Center for Intelligent Drug Systems and 
Smart Bio-devices (IDS(2)B), National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu, 
300, Taiwan. Electronic address: lincs@nycu.edu.tw.

Infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is 
facilitated by its trimeric surface spike protein, which binds to the human 
angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (hACE2) receptor. This critical interaction 
facilitates viral entry and is a primary target for therapeutic intervention 
against COVID-19. However, it is difficult to fully optimize viral infection 
using existing protein-protein interaction methods. Herein, we introduce a 
nano-luciferase binary technology (NanoBiT)-based pseudoviral sensor designed to 
stimulate the dynamics of viral infection in both living cells and animals. 
Infection progression can be dynamically visualized via a rapid increase in 
luminescence within 3 h using an in vivo imaging system (IVIS). Inhibition of 
viral infection by baicalein and baicalin was evaluated using a NanoBiT-based 
pseudoviral sensor. These results indicate that the inhibitory efficacy of 
baicalein was strengthened by targeting the spike protein, whereas baicalin 
targeted the hACE2 protein. Additionally, under optimized conditions, baicalein 
and baicalin provided a synergistic combination to inhibit pseudoviral 
infection. Live bioluminescence imaging was used to evaluate the in vivo effects 
of baicalein and baicalin treatment on LgBiT-hACE2 mice infected with the 
BA.2-SmBiT spike pseudovirus. This innovative bioluminescent system functions as 
a sensitive and early-stage quantitative viral transduction in vitro and in 
vivo. This platform provides novel opportunities for studying the molecular 
biology of animal models.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2024.116630
PMID: 39102773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


8. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2024 Aug;123:105394. doi:
10.1016/j.archger.2024.105394.  Epub 2024 Mar 26.

Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, renin-angiotensin system blockade or 
diuretics and risk of acute kidney injury: A case-crossover study.

Weng SE(1), Hsu WT(2), Hsiao FY(3), Lee CM(4).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Clinical Pharmacy, College of Medicine, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Pharmacy, Taipei City Hospital, 
Zhongxing Branch, Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)Graduate Institute of Clinical Pharmacy, College of Medicine, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan; School of Pharmacy, College of Medicine, National 
Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Pharmacy, National Taiwan 
University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Graduate Institute of Clinical Pharmacy, College of Medicine, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan; School of Pharmacy, College of Medicine, National 
Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Pharmacy, National Taiwan 
University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic address: fyshsiao@ntu.edu.tw.
(4)Department of Cardiology, Fu Jen Catholic University Hospital, Fu Jen 
Catholic University, New Taipei City, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
chiiminglee@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Aging-related physiological changes, such as decline in renal 
function, not only exacerbates pre-existing comorbidities but also escalate the 
susceptibility to adverse events. Previous studies have shown that non-steroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are associated with an increased risk of acute 
kidney injury (AKI), and the concomitant use of renin-angiotensin system 
blockade or diuretics may further potentiate the risk. However, studies 
evaluating the risk of AKI associated with NSAIDs (including routes, concomitant 
use of different NSAIDs, categories (traditional NSAIDs or COX-2 inhibitors), 
and cumulative doses of NSAIDs) are limited, particularly the risk of AKI 
associated with the dual or triple combination of NSAIDs with renin-angiotensin 
system blockade (RAS blockades) and/or diuretics.
METHODS: A case-crossover study utilized two sets of longitudinal data from 
Taiwan's National Health Insurance Research Database (NHIRD). Newly admitted 
patients with a primary AKI diagnosis were included, with the index date defined 
as the first admission date. The 1-7 days and 181-187 days prior to the index 
date served as the case and control periods. Exposure to NSAIDs and co-exposures 
of RAS blockade and/or diuretics were assessed in both periods. Multivariable 
conditional logistic regression models, adjusting for potential confounders, 
estimated adjusted odds ratios (aORs) and 95 % confidence intervals (CIs) for 
AKI associated with NSAIDs, dual, or triple combinations. Sensitivity analyses 
explored result robustness by varying case and control period lengths.
RESULTS: The study included 1,284 newly diagnosed AKI patients. NSAIDs showed a 
3.55-fold increased risk of AKI (aOR: 3.55; 95 % CI 2.70-4.65), with similar 
risks for traditional NSAIDs and COX-2 inhibitors. Use of multiple NSAIDs, 
parenteral dosage forms, and higher cumulative doses increased AKI risk. Dual 
combination with either RAS blockade or diuretics resulted in a 2.90-fold (aOR: 
2.90; 95 %CI 1.47-5.70) and 12.68-fold (aOR: 12.68; 95 %CI 6.15-26.12) risk, 
respectively. The highest risk occurred with triple combination (aOR: 29.22; 95 
%CI 12.82-66.64).
CONCLUSIONS: NSAIDs, including both non-selective NSAIDs and COX2 inhibitors, 
elevate the risk of AKI. Increased AKI risk is linked to using multiple NSAIDs, 
the parenteral dosage form, and higher cumulative doses. Dual combination of RAS 
blockade with NSAIDs or diuretics with NSAIDs, as well as triple therapy, 
heightens the risk, with the latter associated with the highest risk of AKI.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2024.105394
PMID: 38537386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflicts of interest.


9. Histol Histopathol. 2024 Nov;39(11):1395-1425. doi: 10.14670/HH-18-730. Epub 
2024 Mar 6.

Therapeutic strategies to modulate gut microbial health: Approaches for 
sarcopenia management.

Das S(1), Preethi B(1), Kushwaha S(2), Shrivastava R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS), 
Pilani Campus, Pilani, Rajasthan, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, National Institute of 
Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Raebareli, Lucknow, India. 
sapana.k@niperraebareli.edu.in.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS), 
Pilani Campus, Pilani, Rajasthan, India. 
richa.shrivastava@pilani.bits-pilani.ac.in.

Sarcopenia is a progressive and generalized loss of skeletal muscle and 
functions associated with ageing with currently no definitive treatment. 
Alterations in gut microbial composition have emerged as a significant 
contributor to the pathophysiology of multiple diseases. Recently, its 
association with muscle health has pointed to its potential role in mediating 
sarcopenia. The current review focuses on the association of gut microbiota and 
mediators of muscle health, connecting the dots between the influence of gut 
microbiota and their metabolites on biomarkers of sarcopenia. It further 
delineates the mechanism by which the gut microbiota affects muscle health with 
progressing age, aiding the formulation of a multi-modal treatment plan 
involving nutritional supplements and pharmacological interventions along with 
lifestyle changes compiled in the review. Nutritional supplements containing 
proteins, vitamin D, omega-3 fatty acids, creatine, curcumin, kefir, and ursolic 
acid positively impact the gut microbiome. Dietary fibres foster a conducive 
environment for the growth of beneficial microbes such as Bifidobacterium, 
Faecalibacterium, Ruminococcus, and Lactobacillus. Probiotics and prebiotics act 
by protecting against reactive oxygen species (ROS) and inflammatory cytokines. 
They also increase the production of gut microbiota metabolites like short-chain 
fatty acids (SCFAs), which aid in improving muscle health. Foods rich in 
polyphenols are anti-inflammatory and have an antioxidant effect, contributing 
to a healthier gut. Pharmacological interventions like faecal microbiota 
transplantation (FMT), non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), ghrelin 
mimetics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs), and butyrate 
precursors lead to the production of anti-inflammatory fatty acids and regulate 
appetite, gut motility, and microbial impact on gut health. Further research is 
warranted to deepen our understanding of the interaction between gut microbiota 
and muscle health for developing therapeutic strategies for ameliorating 
sarcopenic muscle loss.

©The Author(s) 2024. Open Access. This article is licensed under a Creative 
Commons CC-BY International License.

DOI: 10.14670/HH-18-730
PMID: 38497338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. J Biomol Struct Dyn. 2025 Apr;43(7):3652-3670. doi: 
10.1080/07391102.2023.2300060. Epub 2024 Jan 4.

Structure-based drug discovery to identify SARS-CoV2 spike protein-ACE2 
interaction inhibitors.

Kant R(1), Kaushik R(2)(3), Chopra M(4), Saluja D(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Biotechnology Laboratory, Dr. B. R. Ambedkar Center for Biomedical 
Research &Delhi School of Public Health, IoE, University of Delhi, Delhi, India.
(2)Biotechology Research Center, Technology Innovation Institute, Masdar City, 
UAE.
(3)Laboratory for Structural Bioinformatics, Center for Biosystems Dynamics 
Research, RIKEN, Yokohama, Japan.
(4)Laboratory of Molecular Modeling and Drug Development, Dr. B. R. Ambedkar 
Center for Biomedical Research, University of Delhi, Delhi, India.

After the emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic in late 2019, the severe acute 
respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) has undergone a dynamic 
evolution driven by the acquisition of genetic modifications, resulting in 
several variants that are further classified as variants of interest (VOIs), 
variants under monitoring (VUM) and variants of concern (VOC) by World Health 
Organization (WHO). Currently, there are five SARS-CoV-2 VOCs (Alpha, Beta, 
Delta, Gamma and Omicron), two VOIs (Lambda and Mu) and several other VOIs that 
have been reported globally. In this study, we report a natural compound, 
Curcumin, as the potential inhibitor to the interactions between receptor 
binding domain (RBD(S1)) and human angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (hACE2) 
domains and showcased its inhibitory potential for the Delta and Omicron 
variants through a computational approach by implementing state of the art 
methods. The study for the first time revealed a higher efficiency of Curcumin, 
especially for hindering the interaction between RBD(S1) and hACE-2 domains of 
Delta and Omicron variants as compared to other lead compounds. We investigated 
that the mutations in the RBD(S1) of VOC especially Delta and Omicron variants 
affect its structure compared to that of the wild type and other variants and 
therefore altered its binding to the hACE2 receptor. Molecular docking and 
molecular dynamics (MD) simulation analyses substantially supported the findings 
in terms of the stability of the docked complexes. This study offers compelling 
evidence, warranting a more in-depth exploration into the impact of these 
alterations on the binding of identified drug molecules with the Spike protein. 
Further investigation into their potential therapeutic effects in vivo is highly 
recommended.

DOI: 10.1080/07391102.2023.2300060
PMID: 38174578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]