1. Spectrochim Acta A Mol Biomol Spectrosc. 2026 Feb 16;353:127598. doi: 
10.1016/j.saa.2026.127598. Online ahead of print.

Green in-situ photoreduction synthesis of SERS substrates based on violet 
phosphorus arrays/silver nanoparticles for ultrasensitive detection and accurate 
identification of UTI bacteria.

Wen W(1), Fan W(1), Wang S(1), Dai Y(1), Jiang T(2), Zhao C(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Physical Science and Technology, School of Faculty of Maritime and 
Transportation, Ningbo University, Ningbo 315211, Zhejiang, PR China.
(2)School of Physical Science and Technology, School of Faculty of Maritime and 
Transportation, Ningbo University, Ningbo 315211, Zhejiang, PR China. Electronic 
address: jiangtao@nbu.edu.cn.
(3)Center of Oncology, Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan 430060, Hubei, 
PR China.. Electronic address: zhao_ci@126.com.

Surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) holds significant promise for 
identifying urinary tract infection (UTI) pathogens due to its exceptional 
sensitivity and fingerprinting ability. However, traditional SERS substrates 
suffer from poor stability, high synthesis cost, and reliance on toxic reagents, 
which limit their applications in detecting low bacterial concentrations and 
multiple pathogens in urine. In this study, we developed a green and 
cost-effective in-situ photoreduction strategy to construct an 
electromagnetic-chemical dual-enhanced SERS platform based on violet phosphorus 
(VP) arrays and silver nanoparticles (Ag NPs). By uniformly growing dense Ag NPs 
on tilted VP arrays, we achieved highly sensitive detection and precise 
identification of UTI bacteria. The observed SERS enhancement factor (EF) of 
1.16 × 108 originated from both the intense local electromagnetic (EM) fields at 
the "hotspots" within the nanogaps of the Ag NPs and the photo-induced charge 
transfer (PICT) facilitated by the VP matrix. This enabled limits of detection 
(LODs) as low as 15.45 CFU/mL for Escherichia coli (E. coli) and 126.85 CFU/mL 
for Enterococcus faecalis (E. faecalis), which further facilitated the specific 
identification of UTI pathogens within real urine samples. Combined with 
principal component analysis (PCA), the VP@Ag composite substrate accurately 
differentiated the fingerprint spectra of single and mixed pathogen systems, 
which is crucial for guiding antibiotic therapy. This study provides a reliable 
solution for complex biofluid detection, which is expected to enable integration 
with deep learning for multi-infection diagnosis.

Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.saa.2026.127598
PMID: 41719961

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


2. J Int Med Res. 2026 Feb;54(2):3000605261418377. doi:
10.1177/03000605261418377.  Epub 2026 Feb 20.

Comprehensive perioperative management: Prevention and treatment strategies for 
catheter-related bladder discomfort in urological surgery patients.

Xu W(1), Sun J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Shaoxing People's Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Shaoxing University, China.

Indwelling urinary catheterization, which is widely used in urological 
surgeries, predisposes patients to complications such as catheter-associated 
urinary tract infection, urethral trauma, and catheter-related bladder 
discomfort. Catheter-related bladder discomfort presents as suprapubic burning, 
dysuria, restlessness, or delirium; however it remains underrecognized in 
clinical practice, leading to suboptimal management during surgery. This 
narrative review summarizes the current evidence relating to the pathogenesis of 
catheter-related bladder discomfort, which is primarily associated with 
urothelial injury, muscarinic receptor-mediated detrusor overactivity, and 
neurogenic inflammation. In addition, the review identifies high-risk factors, 
including male sex, catheter diameter ≥18 Fr, and transurethral procedures. We 
highlight the need for uniform approaches to perioperative management, including 
preoperative pharmacoprophylaxis, intraoperative interventions, and 
postoperative therapies. Implementing these evidence-based approaches is 
essential to mitigate the incidence of catheter-related bladder discomfort and 
improve recovery and surgical outcomes in urological patients.

DOI: 10.1177/03000605261418377
PMID: 41719431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declare no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


3. Pediatr Rep. 2026 Feb 3;18(1):20. doi: 10.3390/pediatric18010020.

Severe Lower Urinary Tract Dysfunction in Otherwise Healthy Children: A 
Three-Case Series and Narrative Review.

Stanciu OO(1)(2), Moga A(1)(2), Balanescu L(1)(2), Andriescu M(1)(2), Caragata 
R(1)(2), Balanescu R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Surgery and Orthopedics, "Carol Davila" University of 
Medicine and Pharmacy, 050474 Bucharest, Romania.
(2)Pediatric Surgery Department, "Grigore Alexandrescu" Clinical Emergency 
Hospital for Children, 011743 Bucharest, Romania.

BACKGROUND: Severe lower urinary tract dysfunction (LUTD) in neurologically and 
anatomically normal children is uncommon and frequently underdiagnosed. When 
severe, functional voiding disorders may closely mimic obstructive or reflux 
pathology, leading to diagnostic errors, unnecessary invasive procedures, and 
potential risk to the upper urinary tract.
CASE PRESENTATION: We present three pediatric cases (aged 3-10 years) referred 
for recurrent febrile urinary tract infections, incontinence, or acute urinary 
retention in the absence of neurological or structural abnormalities. Urodynamic 
evaluation identified three distinct severe functional phenotypes: detrusor 
overactivity with reduced bladder capacity, poor compliance with 
detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia and secondary high-grade vesicoureteral reflux 
(Hinman syndrome), and detrusor underactivity with significant post-void 
residual volumes. All patients demonstrated marked bladder wall remodeling on 
cystoscopy, including trabeculation and pseudopolypoid mucosal changes.
CASE DISCUSSION: Despite similar clinical severity, the cases illustrated 
substantial functional heterogeneity and differing risks of upper urinary tract 
involvement. Urodynamic phenotyping proved central to diagnosis, differentiation 
from structural disease, and treatment planning. Multimodal conservative 
management-including urotherapy, pelvic floor biofeedback, targeted 
pharmacologic therapy, and, when indicated, clean intermittent catheterization 
or antibiotic prophylaxis-led to resolution of recurrent infections and 
meaningful improvement in bladder function during medium-term follow-up, 
although symptom recurrence occurred in one patient after treatment withdrawal.
CONCLUSIONS: These cases highlight the heterogeneity and potential reversibility 
of severe functional LUTD in otherwise healthy children. Early functional 
recognition based on urodynamic assessment is essential to avoid misdiagnosis, 
prevent unnecessary surgical intervention, and protect renal function. 
Conservative, function-oriented management remains the cornerstone of effective 
treatment. The findings are discussed in the context of the existing literature 
on severe non-neurogenic LUTD and Hinman syndrome.

DOI: 10.3390/pediatric18010020
PMCID: PMC12921987
PMID: 41718431

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


4. Drugs Context. 2026 Feb 12;15:2025-5-4. doi: 10.7573/dic.2025-5-4. eCollection
 2026.

Antibiotic treatment for neonatal sepsis: changing trends and future directions.

Fung PG(1), Hon EKL(1)(2), Leung KA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Prince of Wales Hospital, The Chinese University 
of Hong Kong, NT, Hong Kong.
(2)Department of Paediatrics, The CUHK Medical Centre (CUHKMC), NT, Hong Kong.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, The University of Calgary, The Alberta Children's 
Hospital, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Neonatal sepsis is a serious and life-threatening condition with 
high morbidity and mortality, especially in preterm neonates in a Neonatal 
Intensive Care Unit (NICU). This article provides an updated review on the 
aetiology and diagnosis of neonatal sepsis, antibiotic management and antibiotic 
stewardship.
METHODS: A literature search was conducted in PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Library 
and Scopus in January 2025, using the following MeSH terms: "sepsis", "neonate" 
and "antibiotic". Meta-analyses, randomized controlled trials, clinical trials 
and reviews published in the English language from 2005 to 2025 with patients in 
the neonatal age group were included. A total of 715 articles were identified 
and screened, and 85 studies were included in the final review.
RESULTS: Neonatal sepsis remains a leading cause of mortality, with distinct 
pathogens identified in early-onset and late-onset sepsis, ventilator-associated 
pneumonia, urinary tract infection and fungal infections. Early recognition, 
accurate diagnosis and timely commencement of empirical antibiotics are 
paramount for improved outcomes. Fungal prophylaxis is considered for at-risk 
neonates in some NICUs with a high incidence of fungal infection. Universal 
group B Streptococcus screening decreased the incidence of early onset sepsis, 
but the emergence of resistant strains of certain organisms present new 
challenges. Evidence-based antibiotic prescription guidelines, antibiotic 
stewardship programmes and quality improvement projects are essential for the 
prevention of antimicrobial resistance in the NICU.
CONCLUSION: Effective management of neonatal sepsis relies on early pathogen 
identification, judicious use of antibiotics and good antimicrobial stewardship. 
Future research directions include development of evidence-based protocols and 
improvement of rapid diagnostic techniques, combined with close monitoring and 
individualized care.

Copyright © 2026 Fung GPG, Hon KLE, Leung AKC.

DOI: 10.7573/dic.2025-5-4
PMCID: PMC12916204
PMID: 41716642

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure and potential conflicts of interest: 
The authors declare that they have no conflicts of interest relevant to this 
manuscript. AKCL and KLEH are associate editors of Drugs in Context. The 
International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE) Potential Conflicts 
of Interests form for the authors is available for download at: 
https://www.drugsincontext.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/12/dic.2025-5-4-COI.pdf


5. Ital J Pediatr. 2026 Feb 19. doi: 10.1186/s13052-025-02164-8. Online ahead of 
print.

Optimizing pediatric vesicoureteral reflux management: a single-center 
experience with contrast-enhanced ultrasound in reducing radiation exposure and 
antibiotic use.

Tamasi S(1), Masucci A(2), De Chiara FA(3), Chiera A(4), Tardi M(5), Martemucci 
L(5), Zeccolini M(1), D'Arcangelo R(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Diagnostic Imaging, A.O.R.N. Santobono Pausilipon, 
Naples, Italy.
(2)Department of Radiology, University of Naples Federico II, Naples, Italy. 
dottannamasucci@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Radiology, University of Molise, Campobasso, Italy.
(4)Faculty of Medicine and Surgery, University of Firenze, Firenze, Italy.
(5)Department of General Pediatrics and Pediatric Immuno-Rheumatology, A.O.R.N. 
Santobono Pausilipon, Naples, Italy.
(6)Department of Kidney Transplantation, Pediatric Nephrology and Dialysis, 
A.O.R.N. Santobono Pausilipon, Naples, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Vesicoureteral reflux is the most common pediatric urological 
anomaly and a leading cause of urinary tract infections in children. Traditional 
follow-up typically relies on voiding cystourethrography, which exposes young 
patients to ionizing radiation. The introduction of contrast-enhanced ultrasound 
provides a radiation-free alternative with comparable diagnostic accuracy. This 
study aims to demonstrate that the use of contrast-enhanced ultrasound can 
shorten follow-up intervals, thereby reducing the duration of antibiotic 
prophylaxis.
METHODS: A prospective observational study was conducted between 2019 and 2024, 
involving 1050 children with urinary tract infections, hydronephrosis, or a 
known history of vesicoureteral reflux. The cohort included both male and female 
children, aged between 1 and 15 years. Diagnosis was confirmed using 
conventional ultrasound and contrast-enhanced ultrasound. Patients with grade 
III to V vesicoureteral reflux underwent contrast-enhanced voiding urosonography 
at 12 months, replacing the standard voiding cystourethrography typically 
performed at 24 months. Clinical data were collected on reflux severity, gender 
distribution, and changes in antibiotic use.
RESULTS: Early reassessment using contrast-enhanced voiding urosonography 
resulted in a significant reduction in the duration of antibiotic prophylaxis. A 
substantial number of patients showed resolution or downgrading of 
vesicoureteral reflux at 12 months, allowing for earlier discontinuation of 
treatment. The diagnostic accuracy of the ultrasound-based approach was 
consistent across age groups and genders.
CONCLUSIONS: In our single-center experience, the incorporation of 
contrast-enhanced voiding urosonography into follow-up protocols for pediatric 
vesicoureteral reflux has been demonstrated to be a safe and effective 
alternative to traditional imaging. By allowing earlier reassessment without 
radiation exposure, contrast-enhanced voiding urosonography facilitates the safe 
discontinuation of prophylactic antibiotics, thereby enhancing patient safety 
and contributing to the reduction of antibiotic resistance.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Not applicable. This is an observational study and does not 
meet the criteria for mandatory trial registration.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13052-025-02164-8
PMID: 41715207

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval and consent to 
participate: The study was approved by the Ethics Committee of 
Santobono-Pausilipon Children’s Hospital. Written informed consent was obtained 
from the parents or legal guardians of all patients prior to the 
contrast-enhanced ultrasound examinations and data collection. Consent for 
publication: Written informed consent for publication of anonymized clinical 
data and images was obtained from the parents or legal guardians of all 
participants. Competing interests: The authors declare that they have no 
competing interests.


6. Expert Rev Clin Immunol. 2026 Jan;22(1):5-18. doi: 
10.1080/1744666X.2026.2623948. Epub 2026 Feb 18.

Nipocalimab for the treatment of moderate-to-severe Sjögren's disease: a plain 
language summary of the DAHLIAS study.

Noaiseh G(1), Sivils KL(2), Campbell K(2), Idokogi J(2), Lo KH(2), Liva SG(2), 
Leu JH(2), Dhatt H(3), Ma K(2), Leonardo S(2), Li H(2), Hubbard JJ(2), 
Gottenberg JE(4); DAHLIAS study investigators.

Author information:
(1)aDivision of Allergy, Clinical Immunology and Rheumatology, Department of 
Medicine, The University of Kansas, Kansas City, KS, USA.
(2)bJohnson & Johnson, Spring House, PA, USA.
(3)cJohnson & Johnson, Raritan, NJ, USA.
(4)dDepartment of Rheumatology, National Reference Centre for Rare Systemic 
Autoimmune Diseases, IBMC UPR3572, CNRS, Strasbourg University Hospital, 
Strasbourg, France.

Plain Language Summary: What is this summary about?This is a plain language 
summary of an article published in the Lancet in 2025. It describes results from 
the phase 2 DAHLIAS study.The DAHLIAS study measured the efficacy and safety of 
an investigational medicine called nipocalimab to treat moderate-to-severe 
Sjögren’s disease. Nipocalimab is a type of biologic treatment called a 
monoclonal antibody. Scientists designed nipocalimab to reduce harmful 
immunoglobulin G (IgG) autoantibodies by blocking the neonatal fragment 
crystallizable receptor (FcRn). IgG autoantibodies called anti-Ro and anti-La 
are elevated in the majority of patients with Sjögren’s disease. DAHLIAS is the 
first controlled clinical trial of an FcRn blocker in Sjögren’s disease.What 
were the results?The DAHLIAS study included 163 participants who had 
moderate-to-severe, active Sjögren’s disease and a positive blood test for 
anti-Ro IgG autoantibodies. Of these, 53 participants received intravenous 
nipocalimab 5 mg/kg, 54 participants received intravenous nipocalimab 15 mg/kg, 
and 56 participants received intravenous placebo every 2 weeks for 22 weeks.At 
Week 24, on average, participants who received nipocalimab 15 mg/kg every 2 
weeks had greater improvements in their Sjögren’s disease signs and symptoms 
than those who received placebo. Blood tests showed treatment with nipocalimab 
also reduced levels of IgG autoantibodies. The safety of nipocalimab was 
comparable to placebo. The most common side effects with both nipocalimab and 
placebo were infections, including COVID-19, the common cold, urinary tract 
infections, and conjunctivitis (pink eye).What do the results mean and why do 
they matter?This is the first study to show that nipocalimab has beneficial 
effects in patients with Sjögren’s disease. Based on these results, nipocalimab 
will be studied in larger, phase 3 studies in patients with Sjögren’s disease. 
If those studies are successful, nipocalimab could become the first treatment 
for Sjögren’s disease that may slow down or stop disease progression by reducing 
the harmful IgG autoantibodies.

DOI: 10.1080/1744666X.2026.2623948
PMID: 41704151


7. Anal Chem. 2026 Feb 17. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.5c07570. Online ahead of 
print.

Wettable Porous Arrays with Structural Color Barcodes Integration for Multiplex 
Urinary Tract Infection Bacteria Screening.

Feng C(1)(2), Li W(2), Wang Y(2), Sun L(1), Wang X(2), Bian F(1).

Author information:
(1)Zhejiang-Finland Joint Laboratory of Gastrointestinal Tumor Metabolism and 
Nutrition, The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 
Zhejiang 325000, China.
(2)Wenzhou Institute, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wenzhou, 
Zhejiang 325001, People's Republic of China.

Urinary tract infection (UTI) is one of the most common bacterial infections in 
clinical practice and is a potentially life-threatening infection with high 
morbidity, recurrence, and mortality rates. High-sensitivity multiplexed 
biomarker detection is crucial for the early diagnosis and treatment of UTI. 
Digital nucleic acid amplification technologies (dNAATs) offer highly sensitive 
molecular characterization by isolating individual template molecules and 
amplifying them separately. However, multiplex analysis with dNAATs often 
requires parallel amplification, which is time-consuming and labor-intensive. 
Here, we present a novel multiplex detection method that integrates structural 
color barcodes into superhydrophilic porous arrays. This method enables the 
sensitive detection of multiple targets simultaneously in a highly efficient 
manner. The excellent hydrophilicity of the microwells allows the reaction 
solution to fill each well, ensuring random and complete isolation of the 
nucleic acid molecules. The amplification reactions occur independently in each 
unit, enabling the absolute quantification of nucleic acids. The structural 
color barcodes fixed in the microwells have stable reflection peaks and large 
surface areas, serving as encoding carriers based on their distinct reflection 
wavelengths. This enables the screening of multiplexed UTI bacteria to be 
performed quickly, accurately, and reproducibly. By using different probes on 
the color barcodes, we were able to detect single and multiple UTI pathogens 
with high sensitivity. The results demonstrate that the integrated porous array 
platform with structural color barcodes realized the highly sensitive detection 
and screening of UTI bacteria, which has great potential in multiplex 
biomolecule detection and early diagnosis of infections.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.5c07570
PMID: 41701208


8. Cureus. 2026 Jan 14;18(1):e101557. doi: 10.7759/cureus.101557. eCollection
2026  Jan.

Purple Urine Bag Syndrome as a Visual Trigger for Overtreatment: A Case Report 
and Aggregated Literature Analysis.

Pippin M(1)(2), Damodhar YR(1)(2), Shrestha S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Family Medicine, Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center, 
Alexandria, USA.
(2)Family Medicine, Rapides Regional Medical Center, Alexandria, USA.

Purple urine bag syndrome (PUBS) is an uncommon yet visually striking clinical 
phenomenon characterized by purple discoloration of urinary drainage systems in 
patients with indwelling urinary devices. Although alarming, it most often 
occurs in elderly or chronically ill patients with multiple risk factors for 
urinary bacterial colonization and does not typically represent a pathologic 
entity. PUBS is often accompanied by abnormal urine studies, which may prompt 
antimicrobial treatment even in the absence of clear clinical infection. We 
report a hospice patient with an indwelling urinary catheter who developed PUBS 
without localized urinary symptoms or systemic signs of infection. The patient 
remained clinically stable, and the treating hospice team did not initiate 
laboratory evaluation or antibiotic therapy. However, the long-term care 
facility subsequently administered intravenous ertapenem in response to urine 
culture results obtained during the episode. The purple discoloration resolved 
without clinical deterioration. This case illustrates how PUBS may trigger 
treatment escalation based on laboratory findings rather than clinical 
presentation, particularly in vulnerable patients, and was the impetus for a 
focused examination of management principles described in published reports. 
Careful interpretation of PUBS within the context of patient symptoms and goals 
of care may help avoid unnecessary interventions and support more judicious 
antimicrobial use and antibiotic stewardship.

Copyright © 2026, Pippin et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.101557
PMCID: PMC12906926
PMID: 41700253

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Informed consent for treatment 
and open access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this 
study. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure 
form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have 
declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the 
submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they 
have no financial relationships at present or within the previous three years 
with any organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


9. Chem Biodivers. 2026 Feb;23(2):e02194. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.202502194.

GC-MS Profiling and In Silico Evaluation of Methanolic Syzygium aromaticum 
Extract Against Urinary Tract Pathogens.

Elumalai L(1), Anbazhagan GK(2), Subramaniyan S(3), Govindasamy M(4), Thangam 
GS(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Helix Research Studio, Saveetha Medical College 
and Hospital, Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences (SIMATS), 
Saveetha University, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Saveetha Medical College and Hospital, Saveetha 
Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences (SIMATS), Saveetha University, 
Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(3)Department of Anesthesia, Saveetha Medical College and Hospital, Saveetha 
Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences (SIMATS), Saveetha University, 
Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Research Unit, Saveetha Medical College and 
Hospital, Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences, Saveetha 
University, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(5)Department of General Surgery, Nanobioinformatics Unit, Eetha Medical College 
and Hospital, Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences, Saveetha 
University, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.

Urinary tract pathogens continue to pose serious health challenges owing to 
their increasing resistance and biofilm formation. In the present study, the 
methanolic crude extract of Syzygium aromaticum (McSA) exhibited 
concentration-dependent antibacterial and antibiofilm activities against 
uropathogens. At 100 µg/mL, P. aeruginosa showed the highest antibacterial 
susceptibility with a 31 mm inhibition zone, whereas E. coli exhibited greater 
biofilm inhibition of 80.28% at a 200 µg/mL concentration. Compared with 
standard gentamicin, the extract exhibited greater inhibitory activity. The 
synergistic interaction between McSA and eugenol further enhanced antibiofilm 
efficacy, with a strong combinatorial effect. Quorum sensing-regulated motility 
and virulence were suppressed by McSA, as evidenced by the inhibition of 
swimming, swarming, and the CRA method. McSA exhibited potent DPPH radical 
scavenging activity, with an antioxidant potential of 79.13% compared with 
84.31% for standard ascorbic acid. The anti-inflammatory efficacy of McSA was 
74.83% at 500 µg/mL, whereas it was 81.49% for the standard aspirin in the 
protein denaturation assay. GC-MS analysis revealed major bioactive compounds, 
including eugenol, caryophyllene, and methoxyacetic acid heptadecyl ester, 
whereas FT-IR analysis confirmed the presence of functional groups such as 
hydroxyl, carbonyl, and aromatic rings. ADMET profiling revealed six drug-like 
compounds with high gastrointestinal absorption and favorable permeability. 
Molecular docking revealed that methoxyacetic acid heptadecyl ester had greater 
binding affinity (-7.56 kcal/mol). This study highlights the synergistic and 
multitargeted action of McSA, positioning it as a potential natural therapeutic 
candidate against uropathogens.

© 2026 Wiley‐VHCA AG.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.202502194
PMID: 41699771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Urol Ann. 2026 Jan-Mar;18(1):68-74. doi: 10.4103/ua.ua_65_25. Epub 2026 Jan
20.

Awareness of benign prostatic hyperplasia among males in the Riyadh region, KSA.

Alkhaldi MS(1), Binsaleh AS(1), Alghamdi AO(1), Alharthy BHA(1), Alkudam AN(1), 
Alanazi FR(1), Aldawsari TK(1), Alqunais MAH(1), Alsharif MHK(2)(3), Ali 
AHA(2)(4), Alzubier MAA(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)College of Medicine, Prince Sattam Bin Abdulaziz University in Al-Kharj, Al 
Kharj, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Basic Medical Science, College of Medicine, Prince Sattam Bin 
Abdulaziz University, Al Kharj, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Professional and Medical Education, Meharry Medical College, 
Nashville, TN, Egypt.
(4)Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine, Al-Azhar University, Cairo, 
Egypt.
(5)Department of Surgery, College of Medicine, Prince Sattam Bin Abdulaziz 
University, Al Kharj, Saudi Arabia.
(6)Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Gadarif University, Gadarif, 
Sudan.

BACKGROUND: Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) is a prevalent urological 
condition characterized by nonneoplastic enlargement of the prostate gland, 
leading to lower urinary tract symptoms such as nocturia, urine retention, and 
secondary urinary infections.
METHODOLOGY: This cross-sectional study evaluates BPH awareness, risk factors, 
and management among males ≥19 years in Riyadh, using a validated questionnaire 
(n = 398). Data were collected using a structured questionnaire distributed to 
398 participants.
RESULTS: The results reveal a significant lack of awareness, with 61.3% of 
participants showing poor knowledge about BPH, its symptoms, and available 
treatments. Notably, the internet and social media were the primary information 
sources, overshadowing healthcare providers. Despite the low awareness, 76.6% of 
participants expressed interest in learning more about BPH, highlighting an 
opportunity for targeted educational programs.
CONCLUSIONS: The study shows an urgent need for public health interventions to 
improve awareness, promote early detection, and address modifiable lifestyle 
risk factors to enhance the quality of life in affected populations. Targeted 
interventions leveraging social media and healthcare providers are urgently 
needed to address gaps in awareness and screening.

Copyright: © 2026 Urology Annals.

DOI: 10.4103/ua.ua_65_25
PMCID: PMC12904515
PMID: 41696606

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.